.github/instructions/interface-code-review.instructions.md, before:

---
excludeAgent: "coding-agent"
---

# Copilot code review instructions (Interface repo)

You are reviewing PRs for the public Interface SDK of Phoenix Agentic Engine.
Priorities: maintain contract compatibility, enforce publish-safe boundaries, and follow TypeScript conventions.

## Review focus

- This is a **protocol layer**, not a UI product. Code should define contracts, transport, validation, and typed client logic only.
- Watch for any orchestration logic, prompt content, agent coordination, or policy/risk logic leaking into this repo — those belong in the backend.
- Any schema change in `contracts/v1/` is potentially breaking. Require explicit justification and coordinated fixture updates.
- New contract versions (`v2`, etc.) should be additive, not mutations of existing `v1` payloads.

## What must NOT be in this repo

- System prompts or prompt templates
- Orchestration logic or agent coordination
- Model routing or selection intelligence
- Approval policy rules or risk scoring
- Prompt sanitization pipeline
- Usage metering or billing logic
- UI/UX code (approval dialogs, chat panels, etc.)

## TypeScript coding standards (what to enforce)

- Match existing style in the edited file.
- Use strict TypeScript (`strict: true` in tsconfig).
- Prefer Zod schemas for runtime validation.
- Use `camelCase` for functions/variables, `PascalCase` for types/interfaces/classes.
- Prefer explicit types over `any` — flag `any` usage.
- Use `readonly` where mutation is not needed.
- Prefer `interface` for public API shapes, `type` for unions/intersections.

## Safety / correctness checks

- Validate that request/response types match the golden fixtures in current form of contracts:  `contracts/v1/`, `contracts/v2/`, etc.
- Ensure transport code handles errors, retries, and timeouts correctly.
- Check that validators reject malformed payloads, not just accept valid ones.
- Watch for accidental exposure of auth tokens or credentials in logs or errors.

## Scope & hygiene

- Keep PR scope tight; ask to split unrelated refactors.
- Avoid adding dependencies without justification — this SDK should stay lightweight.
- Avoid adding secrets, credentials, or proprietary content anywhere in the repo.
- Ensure all new code has corresponding test coverage.

## What to request from authors (when missing)

- Explanation of why a contract change is needed and backward compatibility assessment.
- Test results (`npm test` output).
- If fixtures changed: confirmation that backend golden tests also pass.

Commit message:

docs: update CLI tool policy and PR size discipline across multiple documentation files

.github/instructions/interface-code-review.instructions.md, after:

---
excludeAgent: "coding-agent"
---

# Copilot code review instructions (Interface repo)

You are reviewing PRs for the public Interface SDK of Phoenix Agentic Engine.
Priorities: maintain contract compatibility, enforce publish-safe boundaries, and follow TypeScript conventions.

## Review focus

- This is a **protocol layer**, not a UI product. Code should define contracts, transport, validation, and typed client logic only.
- Watch for any orchestration logic, prompt content, agent coordination, or policy/risk logic leaking into this repo — those belong in the backend.
- Any schema change in `contracts/v1/` is potentially breaking. Require explicit justification and coordinated fixture updates.
- New contract versions (`v2`, etc.) should be additive, not mutations of existing `v1` payloads.

## What must NOT be in this repo

- System prompts or prompt templates
- Orchestration logic or agent coordination
- Model routing or selection intelligence
- Approval policy rules or risk scoring
- Prompt sanitization pipeline
- Usage metering or billing logic
- UI/UX code (approval dialogs, chat panels, etc.)

## TypeScript coding standards (what to enforce)

- Match existing style in the edited file.
- Use strict TypeScript (`strict: true` in tsconfig).
- Prefer Zod schemas for runtime validation.
- Use `camelCase` for functions/variables, `PascalCase` for types/interfaces/classes.
- Prefer explicit types over `any` — flag `any` usage.
- Use `readonly` where mutation is not needed.
- Prefer `interface` for public API shapes, `type` for unions/intersections.

## Safety / correctness checks

- Validate that request/response types match the golden fixtures in current form of contracts:  `contracts/v1/`, `contracts/v2/`, etc.
- Ensure transport code handles errors, retries, and timeouts correctly.
- Check that validators reject malformed payloads, not just accept valid ones.
- Watch for accidental exposure of auth tokens or credentials in logs or errors.

## Scope & hygiene

- Keep PR scope tight; ask to split unrelated refactors.
- Avoid adding dependencies without justification — this SDK should stay lightweight.
- Avoid adding secrets, credentials, or proprietary content anywhere in the repo.
- Ensure all new code has corresponding test coverage.

## CLI tool policy (mandatory)

- **NEVER use `gh` CLI** — it is not installed and must not be used.
- **Always prefer GitHub MCP tools** (`mcp_github_*`) for all GitHub operations.
- Fall back to terminal `git` commands only for local worktree operations or when MCP tools fail.

## PR size discipline

- Keep PRs small — one logical change per PR.
- Flag oversized PRs and request splitting.
- If a feature branch is large, recommend sub-branches targeting the feature branch.

## Issue creation (public repo)

- Create issues for trackable work using GitHub MCP tools — never `gh issue create`.
- For non-sensitive, public-facing work: assign to Copilot (cloud agent).
- Do NOT create public issues for private/sensitive matters.

## What to request from authors (when missing)

- Explanation of why a contract change is needed and backward compatibility assessment.
- Test results (`npm test` output).
- If fixtures changed: confirmation that backend golden tests also pass.
